So, that's up to the basics of
the Android operating system and
the architecture of our apps.
But let's jump directly into Kotlin code.
So Kotlin,
it's a language created by JetBrains.
I'm not sure if you have
heard about JetBrains.
JetBrains is a company that
originally was building IDEs.
They have a lot of IDEs available.
Let's jump quickly into the JetBrains
website where you can see
all the IDEs that they have.
They have IDEs for JavaScript or .NET.
That's IntelliJ, WebStorm,
pine charm, PhpStorm, ReSharper,
writer blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
All these IDEs are actually by JetBrains.
And by the way,
Android Studio is by JetBrains as well.
It's an IDE built by JetBrains,
that Google license to JetBrains so
we can use it for free.
But actually Android Studio is
a JetBrains IDE that we can get for free.
So Kotlin the language was
also created by JetBrains.
It's open source and that's why Google or
the Android team has decided
to use it on Android, why?
Because originally the SDK
was only available with Java.
And actually the SDK is stacked with
Java 6 and some things, some Java 8.
Not even Java 8 completely.
So it was an old version of Java.
And it was actually complicate
to actually evolve Java for
Android mostly with a legal
fight between Oracle and Google.
So that's why the Android team
decided to have an alternative
that is modern and faster,
that is compatible with
Java virtual machine Android,
and that's Kotlin.
It's an statically typed language.
So every variable will have a type.
But it also contains or
supports type inference.
So every variable will have
a type declaration, like Java,
but sometimes we don't need to declare it.
And the compiler will just infer the type
from the value that we are assigning.
So at some point, it looks like
JavaScript, most of the time, okay?
It's multi-platform.
We are going to support only
today Kotlin for Android.
But actually Kotlin also compiled to
Java virtue machine for back end.
So Java Enterprise.
Or Kotlin, can also compile into
other platforms, even the web.
I will get into that in a minute.
It's easy to learn.
We can learn most of
Kotlin in just half a day.
Better go into today.
Yeah, of course there are some
advanced topics and ideas and
design patterns that we
won't have time to cover.
But most of the language can be covered
easily in half a day if you have
experience in other modern
languages including JavaScript.
So it has less ceremonial
compared to Java.
I mean on Java you need to create
listeners and for listeners, you need to
create anonymous classes with the listener
new side, shot for an on click handler.
With this the idea is to be less
ceremonial with less bureaucracy.
Okay, let's go and
jump directly into code that looks nice.
It has some modern ideas
in terms of what we can do.
Here we have a big warning.
Kotlin include a lot of
smart ideas that sometimes
are not available for
Android app development.
So you will find, not today but later when
we get with more Kotlin app development,
you can get into some architectural ideas,
some changes that are not
working on Android, why?
Because on Android we have a constraint.
That's the Java built on machine or
the executable built on machine.
They call it Android run time.
And yeah,
we are not changing that run time, okay?
So there are some limitations on the run
time that when you're building Kotlin for
other platforms you don't have.
It includes null safety, the same as other
modern languages such as Dart or Swift.
And we'll get into that in a minute.
We have interpreted languages,
where we ship source code,
intermediate language,
where we ship bytecode when we compile.
And compiled languages that we're
going to ship machine code.
You can see Kotlin, it's actually
compatible with Bytecode and Machine Code.
So with Kotlin we can actually
build libraries of code or
apps that are for instance,
a 64 bit or for ARM.
So we can actually ship binary code.
But for Android,
we will focus only here, on bytecode.
Because we are going to create code
that will work in the Android SDK,
in the Android run time, okay?
But have in mind that coding is
available for other platforms.
So Koltlin can compile to JVM version 6,
to JVM version 8,
to Android Java DEX executable,
that's the one that we are going to use.
To JavaScript, look at that.
So we have some kind of a transpiler
available that we can write Kotlin and
compile that into JavaScript for the web.
Also we can combine native code for
IOS, Mac OS, Android,
Windows, Linux, and even web assembly.
Web assembly is for
then run this in JavaScript.
In this case when we are talking
about Native in Android, so
what's the difference between this
Android and the other Android?
Is that, that's actually for libraries,
not for working with the user interface.
I mean you have a cryptographic library or
a database library,
you can build that in native Kotlin it
ships as a native library that is more
performant than the intermediate
language that's the BM.
And also multi platform, so
you can actually share the same
database that you have just created
with iOS or Mac OS or Windows.
And just to finish this introduction
to the Kotli idea, there is something
that they want you to know that exists and
is not what we are going to use today.
It's called,
Kotlin Multiplatform Mobile, KMM.
Kotlin Multiplatform Mobile is
another framework that lets
you use Kotlin to create libraries that
you can use them on Android and iOS.
Not user interface,
not user interfaces, just libraries.
So your business law shake,
you can be your models, your view models.
You can build that in Kotlin and
then use that in a normal
Kotlin Android project or
in a Swift project on iOS.
That's known as
Kotlin Multiplatform Mobile.
We are close to see some code but
before doing that let me show
you this diagram really quickly.
So this is the current Android
app development ecosystem.
You have Kotlin Java code that can
use Android jetpack libraries and
those libraries can actually
talk to your Android SDK.
So we are going to write Kotlin code.
So our Kotlin code can use Jetpack and
also can use directly
the API's from the SDK.
Also you can write your own C++ code and
connect them through something
known a Java Native Interface.
It doesn't matter.
So, this is the ecosystem.
What we're going to write is just
Kotlin and maybe C++, not today but
on another project you can also write C++.
Today we're going to just write Kotlin.
The rest is just part of the build, or
part of the operating system,
is not our code, okay?
And our code will just be Kotlin
today from that ecosystem.
Just have in mind that that code
can talk to C++, they can talk to
Jetpack libraries and also they
can talk to the Android SDK APIs.
So if you wanna use Bluetooth API,
while that's part of the Android SDK,
you can talk to that API.
And in the APK file, so
when you're building the app,
it will go DEX code,
DEX is Dalvik executable.
Oops, so DEX is Dalvik executable.
And also Jetpack; because Jetpack is
not part of the operating system.
Jetpack is a library that
we are deciding to use.
Its from the Android team so
it's kind of an official library but
it's still a library.
So that means that in your APK,
the the compiled code
of Jetpack will also be
shipped In the package.
And if you have C++ code,
you will have the libraries combined.
So we have a question on
installing Android Studio and
problems with one of the utilities,
that's called HAXM.
So that's actually an emulator,
let's say improver, so it's a tool that
will improve the performance of
your innovator on Intel processor.
If you have problems in styling, you
need to read the methods that you have,
typically have to do or your computer is
not Intel compatible for VM acceleration.
And sometimes you need to get into
the BIOs of your computer and
enable a built on function.
So if that tool is not working
it shouldn't be a big deal,
the only problem is that your
emulator will work slower
because it's not running
directly into your CPU.
The emulator is IBM, so it's actually will
convert To Intel and it's actually slower.